Hey everyone and thanks for jumping back
into the cryptoverse.
Today we're going to talk about Bitcoin
and how we have just tagged the 200 week
moving average. If you guys like the
content, make sure you subscribe to the
channel. Give the video a thumbs up and
also check out the sale on into the
cryptoverse premium at into the
cryptoverse.com.
The sale is going to be ending in just
about 3 days or so. Let's go ahead and
jump in. So, so Bitcoin has tagged the
200week moving average. This is in fact
our date with destiny.
And where this essentially came from was
simply looking at the charts and saying
I don't need a narrative to justify
anything but noticing that every time
when we get to the end of the mid the
end of the post having year going into
the midterm year we first drop below the
50we moving average like you can see
every cycle
and then we drop below the 100week
moving average
like you can see every cycle and then
eventually we go to the 200E moving
average which you can now see every
cycle. It really hasn't been that
complicated, right? I mean this is just
what Bitcoin does is about every four
years or so Bitcoin has a date with
Destiny and Destiny is the 200WE moving
average. So then of course it raises the
question where does that put us within
the context of the low. You can see
there have been multiple times in
history where the 200E moving average
more or less provided support.
Unfortunately last cycle it did not. We
we did in fact go below it. So because
of that I I cannot say with a clear
conscience that we won't go below it. In
fact, we already have on on a wick like
we've already gone below it. Uh the 200E
moving average is currently around
61.8K.
What's interesting is just how cyclical
Bitcoin is being right now because it
was actually the week of June 13th in
2022 about mid June where Bitcoin went
through the 200E moving average. So,
literally 4 years later to the tea, we
tag the 200week moving average. My guess
is what will happen is that we'll likely
see Bitcoin settle low probably,
as I've said before, um a late night in
the middle of June, I guess. and and
that what'll happen after that is you'll
see Bitcoin kind of drift back up into
July, maybe going into August. If you
look back at the last two cycles, you'll
see that lows occur in June and then you
get these smaller counter trend rallies
in like the July August time frame
oftent times before the market then sort
of falls off and then sets the final
market cycle bottom. Now I know I have
mentioned October as the time for the
low and that is still my base case but
there are there are ways in which I
would change my mind on that and one of
those ways is if we were to just get an
outright capitulation like if something
like March 2020 were to happen then I
wouldn't sit here and say that you have
to wait for October at that point I'd
probably say you'll have a low in
October but it'll probably be a higher
low. I know it doesn't seem like this is
a March 2020 type event. Um, I'm not
suggesting that it is, but it's one of
those things where I I feel like I have
to I have to be at least aware at any
moment that capitulations can happen.
And, you know, it it's not like it's not
like it completely doesn't match. Okay.
In fact, one of the main things that
we've talked about this year is
comparing Bitcoin to 2019. And when you
compare Bitcoin to 2019, you can see
it's a very similar structure and how
Bitcoin then capitulated
into day 260 and we're currently on day
242.
So if Bitcoin were to just capitulate
outright all the way down to say
something really really low well below
60K then I don't know if I would remain
a bear. I probably wouldn't at that
point. But I also am not yet willing to
say that this is what's going to happen
because when you look at the year-to-
date ROI of Bitcoin in midterm years, if
you look at 2026 and compare that to the
average of prior midterm years,
historically at this point, Bitcoin is
down on average
at this point, it's down about uh 32%
from the from the yearly open. And right
now, Bitcoin is currently down about 29
to 30% from the yearly open. So, while
it may feel like this time is different,
Bitcoin is actually at the same spot it
normally is at this point in midterm
years, as you can see. And where it
would go if it were to continue
the average of prior midterm years is it
would go, you know, into the 50k range,
right? Not much lower than that. And you
can see that it would take until Q4 for
it to really get down there if it were
to follow the average of prior midterm
years. So I am not unsympathetic to the
idea of the 200E moving average
providing support.
If we could hold it for the rest of
June. So if Bitcoin holds the 200WE
moving average for the rest of June,
then you'll likely see some type of
counter trend rally going into early
July. But the problem right now is that
it's still so early in June that there's
plenty of time theoretically to break
down below it. I think there's a decent
chance that Bitcoin will likely at least
sweep the low from February, kind of
like it did back in 2018. There was a
low set in February. It was a wick low
and after that low, you can see that
Bitcoin did not take out that low until
about mid June. And that's where we
essentially are right now, right? Or
we're right now in early June, but we're
about a week away or so from mid June.
And if we sweep that low, then you could
argue that the bare market did in fact
continue and that it was a mistake for,
you know, people to think that the bare
market was over. At this point, we're
still above the 200E moving average. Um,
but we still are in that window of
weakness for Bitcoin in the month of
June. I would expect Bitcoin to set a
low in June. I would that is a a likely
month for a low. But if it's only around
60K plus or minus a few thousand, like
let's say it's, you know, somewhere
between where the current where it's
already bottomed and maybe like 57K or
58K,
then the jury is still going to be out
on whether that's actually the low or
not because even in 2018, you still had
a Q4 capitulation. And in 2022, you
still had a Q4 capitulation.
Now, one thing to notice though is that
the capitulations,
you know, in Q4 weren't as bad if you
kind of plot it out like, you know, one
to the other. So, maybe this one won't
be as bad. But I also, you know, can't
ignore the fact that we did go below the
200week moving average last cycle. And
so, it is possible that we go below it
this cycle. In fact, last cycle, I think
we even went below the 300week moving
average. Um, and I honestly don't really
fully remember, but I I think if you put
on the 300 week, didn't we go didn't we
go below the 300WE moving average last
cycle?
Yeah. I mean, last cycle we actually
went slightly below the 300WE moving
average, and that's currently trading at
around 54K.
Note that 54K is really similar to the
realized price. So if you go look at um
uh the terminal price chart, it also has
uh the realized price and balance price.
The realized price is around uh 50. It's
just below 54K. So that's actually right
around where that 300WE moving average
is. And what you'll notice is that in
2022, we fell just shy of that 300WE
moving average before then getting a
counter trend rally back up essentially
slightly above the 200WE moving average.
So I think there's still some time left
in the current window of weakness where
we have to deal with the fact that we
might actually go below the 200E moving
average. We might wick below it. We
might even get some weekly closes below
it. But this is that window of weakness.
And I would say in about you know in
about 3 weeks or so I would start to
look for a sort of a brief window of
strength to open up in July.
So right now the week the sort of that
weakness is open. Look for a brief
change in July and then we will have a
lot of debates in August July August
time frame as to whether we get you know
another drop into the fourth quarter of
of the year. So hopefully this is useful
to you guys and hopefully kind of
following this date with destiny stuff
we've been talking about for the last
few months was in fact helpful. I know
the crypto markets have been melting
down recently, especially the altcoin
markets and I I hope everyone's doing
okay and I mean there's obviously a lot
more to life than than money. So do
remember that if you are experiencing
losses right now in the markets. I have
experienced a lot of losses in in prior
market cycles and it always really sucks
and then another four years later I've
you know I sort of learned from my
mistakes and then I was doing much
better. So, I I would say don't give up
if you're if you're struggling with some
of the investment decisions that you've
made. Um, just try to take those and
then apply them to the next cycle. And I
think you'll be surprised at at maybe
how much better things will go. Um,
especially if you diversify into a lot
of different assets maybe outside of
outside of crypto because the reality is
is stock market is still at all-time
highs. Now, obviously, I think the stock
market will likely get a correction.
oftentimes Bitcoin will lead those
corrections. But you know the reality is
is if you were in say index funds in the
stock market then you know the pain
wouldn't be nearly as bad even if you
had a few% allocated to to the
cryptoverse. So we'll see what happens
here in June and and we'll see if
Bitcoin can hold that 200 week moving
average. I would say if if we're still
holding it by the end of June then I
would say all right look for a rally off
of it in July. But for now, there is
still a window of weakness open. I would
say for at least the next couple of
weeks or so. One of the things to
consider is that the Bank of Japan may
be raising rates um in about mid June.
The Fed meeting is, you know, June 17th.
We also have a Bank of Japan meeting
right around that time. And if you look
at, you know, some of the prior
capitulations that we had,
this capitulation right here that
Bitcoin had in August was actually like
the week after the Bank of Japan raised
rates in late July. So perhaps you'll
see Bitcoin find a local low sometime
around when maybe the Bank of Japan
raises interest rates. Uh that might be
what's actually going on right now.
Perhaps that's the thing that's that's,
you know, partially responsible for
this. If you need a narrative, I don't
really think you do, but if I had to
pick one, I wouldn't pick sailor selling
or anything like that. I'd say, look,
the Bank of Japan's likely to raise
rates. Historically, crypto doesn't like
it because it leads to the unwind of the
carry trade. So, consider that. Maybe
look for a low for Bitcoin uh in June
and then a rally out of it into July,
perhaps into August. And then we wrestle
with okay the reason why Bitcoin might
not have a final bottom in June is
because often times in the second half
of the year the stock market gets a
correction and it's the stock market
dropping that then makes Bitcoin go down
and and find its market cycle bottom. If
you guys like the content make sure you
subscribe, give the video a thumbs up.
Thank you guys for tuning in. Check out
the sale on ITC Premium and I'll see you
guys next time. Bye.